any creature has what he called the
translation is green lifeforce energy
that actually wants perfect health for
that creature and that it's a driving
force
unfortunately he believed as I do that
there were external forces that were
preventing that expression of green
lifeforce energy so he thought the
purpose of a physician was to identify
those external forces that were keeping
the green lifeforce energy from
expressing itself and remove them or
teach the patient to remove them and
then the patient would heal him or
herself because the green lifeforce
energy would take over now that sounds
kind of New Age and touchy-feely but he
was absolutely right and one of the
things that I guess I and other people
I've discovered is that one of those
external contributing factors are
lectins and if you remove certain
lectins things you'll start to heal
yourself let me give you another example
if we're out on the ocean in a boat and
the boat springs a leak in the bottom of
the boat and water is rushing in we have
two options the one option is we grab a
bucket and we start bailing the bigger
the hole is like the old commercial
we're gonna need a bigger bucket and I
think that most systems for healing the
gut are just giving people buckets to
bail whatever because it's a lot easier
to plug the dumb hole and then you don't
need buckets and so if lectins are one
of the major ways that we get leaky gut
then if we get lectins out of our diet
that's how we plug the holes
unfortunately for us the lining of the
gut is only one cell thick and so
imagine one cell thickness keeping
everything you
or everything living in you like
bacteria separated from you and they're
all held together locked arm an arm with
tight junctions so what dr. Fasano
showed with gluten which is a lectin is
that gluten makes its trouble by causing
leaky gut so once those spaces are open
not only do lectins get through which
are foreign proteins their splinters but
also pieces of bacteria call or living
bacteria also get through the wall now
on the other side of the wall is your
Border Patrol your immune system in 65%
of all the white cells in our body are
up against this wall why are they there
because that's where the problem is
going to happen if it's going to happen
so when these foreign proteins get
across the wall the immune system
basically sounds the alarm sounds the
air raid sirens we go to threat level 5
we scramble the fighter jets and we
actually go to war status and as I
talked about in the book that war status
has manifested in multiple ways whether
it's brain fog whether it's arthritis
whether it's depression or anxiety
whether it's coronary artery disease
which is how I got interested in and in
the first place and all of these things
come right back to what Epocrates said
2500 years ago that if you want to cure
the disease head to the gut and I see
this for instance I had so many
allergies as a young adult and in
college that I had to get all allergy
shots and you know you're allergic to
things
well my allergies were just because my
immune system was just on hyper overload
I don't have any allergies anymore I
didn't outgrow my allergies through the
last 17 years I've told my immune system
to chill out there's nothing to be
interested in here because there's
nothing come
across the border
[Music]
Oh